UDP Concepts "guide" created as companion piece to UDP commands in Command Ref (#137)
openthread/ot-docs: site/en/reference/cli/concepts/udp.md

> # Send UDP Messages with OT CLI

Reviewer: Should we update to be more clear how the CLI is intended for use, something like:

`# Test UDP functionality with OT CLI`

Author: I like it; will change to that.  @abtink - agree?

IPv6 address and port is also referred to as naming the socket. If you do not directly
`bind` the socket, connecting the socket (`udp connect`) or using it in
a `udp send` command binds the socket to an ephemeral port.

### `connect` command

A `udp connect` command can be used to connect the example socket to a peer socket address.
You can then issue a `udp send` command to send a message to the peer. If the socket
is not already bound, issuing the `udp connect` command also binds the socket. 

### `send` command

A `udp send` command sends a message using the example socket to a destination
whose IP address and UDP port can be specified with the command variables.
If the IP address and port are not specified in the
`udp send` command, the message gets sent using the example socket
to the destination that was specified in the `udp connect` command.
Issuing the `udp send` command binds the socket to an ephemeral port
if the socket has not already been bound.

### `close` command

It is recommended that you use the `udp close` command to close the socket when
the socket is no longer needed.

### `linksecurity` command

> The `udp linksecurity` command can be used to enable/disable MAC/link level security for messages. 

Author: @abtink Can I make Jeff's suggested change here to say "data link level?"

> The `udp linksecurity` command can be used to enable/disable MAC/link level security for messages. 

Reviewer 2: yes. we can say enable or disable "data link layer security"

> # Test UDP Functionality With OT CLI

Reviewer: Also add this file to https://github.com/openthread/ot-docs/blob/main/site/en/reference/cli/_toc.yaml

`bind` the socket, connecting the socket (`udp connect`) or using it in
a `udp send` command binds the socket to an ephemeral port.

### `connect` command

A `udp connect` command can be used to connect the example socket to a peer socket address.
You can then issue a `udp send` command to send a message to the peer. If the socket
is not already bound, issuing the `udp connect` command also binds the socket. 

### `send` command

A `udp send` command sends a message using the example socket to a destination
whose IP address and UDP port can be specified with the command variables.
If the IP address and port are not specified in the
`udp send` command, the message gets sent using the example socket
to the destination that was specified in the `udp connect` command.
Issuing the `udp send` command binds the socket to an ephemeral port
if the socket has not already been bound.

### `close` command

It is recommended that you use the `udp close` command to close the socket when
the socket is no longer needed.

### `linksecurity` command

The `udp linksecurity` command can be used to enable or disable data-link layer security for messages. 

> ## Send a Message Between Two Nodes

Reviewer: Headers should be sentence case

Send a message between two nodes

1. On Node 1, open the UDP socket.

    ```
    > udp open
    Done
    ```

1. On Node 1, bind the socket.
   
    ```
    > udp bind :: 1234
    Done
    ```

    The use of `::` denotes that the `bind` should use the unspecified IPv6 address,
    thereby having the UDP/IPv6 stack assign the binding IPv6 address. For complete
    options with `udp bind`, such as binding to a network interface, 
    refer to [udp bind](https://openthread.io/reference/cli/commands#udp_bind).

> 1.  On Node 2, open the UDP socket.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. On Node 2, open the UDP socket.
```

Author: thx Jonathan - making changes now...

    ```
    > udp open
    Done
    ```

1. On Node 2, send a simple message to Node 1. 

>    ```
>    > udp send fdde:ad00:beef:0:bb1:ebd6:ad10:f33 1234 hello
>    Done
>    ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
   ```
    > udp send fdde:ad00:beef:0:bb1:ebd6:ad10:f33 1234 hello
    Done
    ```
```

    This command assumes that Node 2 has already discovered the address of Node 1.
    Additionally, in this example, the administrator of Node 2 has chosen to not
    bind the socket. This is because the Node 2 administrator wants to send
    a message to Node 1 without caring which of its IP addresses and ports are used
    as the Node 2 source. The socket chooses an IP address and port randomly in this scenario.

    For complete options with `udp send`, refer to
    [udp send](https://openthread.io/reference/cli/commands#udp_send).

1. Node 1 confirms receipt of the message from Node 2:

>    ```
>    > 5 bytes from fdde:ad00:beef:0:dac3:6792:e2e:90d8 49153 hello
>    ```

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
    ```
    > 5 bytes from fdde:ad00:beef:0:dac3:6792:e2e:90d8 49153 hello
    ```
```

> ## Connect the Socket to the Peer Socket Address, then Send a Message Between Two Nodes

Reviewer: Sentence case header

This example is similar to the previous one, but demonstrates some of the flexibility
you have in using UDP sockets. With this method, you first connect the socket to the
peer socket address, then you do not need to specify the peer IP address and port
each time you do a `udp send`.

1. On Node 1, open the UDP socket.

    ```
    > udp open
    Done
    ```

1. On Node 1, bind the socket.

   ```
   > udp bind :: 1234
   Done
   ```

> 1.  On Node 2, open the UDP socket.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. On Node 2, open the UDP socket.
```

    ```
    > udp open
    Done
    ```

> 1.  On Node 2, use the `udp connect` command to open communication to Node 1.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
1. On Node 2, use the `udp connect` command to open communication to Node 1.
```

# Send UDP Messages with OT CLI

Thread networks offer several `udp` commands for establishing peer-to-peer communication
using UDP sockets. Each peer needs its own socket.

In addition to opening the required sockets, one requirement is that the socket
on the receiving end of the initial communication be bound.

> The examples that follow demonstrate how you can open and bind sockets, how to

Reviewer 2: Useful to mention that `cli udp` interact with one example socket.  

`cli udp` command does not really let user create new sockets .

> to specify a peer with which to associate a local socket, and how to send messages

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
to connect a socket, and how to send messages
```

using UDP sockets.

## UDP Commands

For a list of `udp` commands, type `help`:

> udp help
bind
close
connect
linksecurity
open
send
Done

### `open` command

> Use the `udp open` command to open a socket to begin UDP communication.

Reviewer 2: We should not use the term "a socket" as all `cli udp` commands interact with just one specific example socket provided by CLI.

We can refer to it as "the example socket" which make it consistent with the `README_UDP.md`.

You then have the option to bind the socket to a specific IP address and port.

### `bind` command

After you `open` a socket, you can run a `udp bind` command to assign an IPv6 address
and a port to the open socket. This binds the socket for communication. Assigning the

> IPv6 address and port is also referred to as naming the socket. Binding is required to
> initially receive a UDP message. However, binding a socket is not required
> on the node that is sending the first message. If the initiating node opens but
> does not bind a socket, the socket will choose its own local IP address and ephemeral port
> when sending the message.

Reviewer 2: Recommend simplifying this:
```suggestion
IPv6 address and port is also referred to as naming the socket. 

If the socket is not already bound, connecting it and/or using it to send will bind it to use an ephemeral port.
```

### `connect` command

A `udp connect` command can be used to establish UDP communication with one specific peer socket

> by specifying the IP address and UDP port number of the peer. This command can later be

Reviewer 2: Suggest to simplify:
`udp connect` can be used to connect the example socket to a peer socket address.

> followed by a `udp send` command. While the `udp connect` command is not required in
> the communication between two UDP sockets, it does provide the simplicity of not having to
> specify the destination IP address and port each time a `udp send` command is issued. This
> is because the connected peer socket would be used by default. Issuing the `udp connect`
> command will bind the local socket to an ephemeral port if the local socket has
> not already been bound. 

Reviewer 2: Suggest removing extra details.
```suggestion
followed by a `udp send` command to send to send to peer.

If socket is not already bound, issuing the `udp connect` command will bind also bind the socket.
```

### `send` command

> A `udp send` commands sends a message to the socket whose IP address and UDP port can

Reviewer 2: "sends a message to the socket" is not technically correct. We send a UDP message using the example socket to a destination.

specified with the command variables. If the IP address and port are not specified in the
`udp send` command, the message gets sent to the socket that was specified in the `udp connect` command.

> Issuing the `udp send` command will bind the local socket to an ephemeral port

Reviewer 2: Suggest not using "local socket" (all the `cli` commands are interacting with the one specific example socket provided by CLI).
